cool we'll get started hey guys my name
is J I'm one of the expert IELTS
teachers here at e to language welcome
to the master class this one is on IELTS
writing task 2 it's the double question
essay so we're doing double question
tonight tomorrow
advantages/disadvantages
excuse me Thursday what are we doing
Thursday discussion plus opinion and
Friday we're doing problem solutions
cool so stick around if you haven't
signed up for the master classes yet do
it go and sign up for a budget package
you'll get full access to the master
classes plus the online course plus lots
of other cool stuff let's get started
though so in this one we're looking at
double question is that right yes double
question this is the second one ok let's
talk first about essay structures
because I've changed it a little bit
I've realized that we needed to put a
little bit more complexity into the
paragraphs and I did this while we did
this I should say e to language the
teachers here because we realized that
some of the questions require you to
discuss two ideas in your paragraph for
example discuss the advantages and the
disadvantages not advantage disadvantage
advantages so you needed a paragraph
there that could have two ideas in it to
satisfy the question same as problems
solutions so we needed to create
different paragraph structures and what
we also found is even for ones like
double question it's nice to just have
two ideas within that paragraph as long
as they're neatly connected and I'll
show you how to do that so this is the
generic essay structure I'm going to
show you the particular essay structure
in a minute but this is one that you
want to just learn for any of the essays
this is the basic structure so we have
an introduction with three sentences
I'll get to that in a second I think you
know how to do that the paragraph is
interesting so sentence 1 we have a
topic sentence where we outline the main
idea for example the problems or the
answer to question
one or the advantages or the
disadvantages for example then we have
point one and give evidence then we have
point two and give evidence and then we
have a concluding sentence and we do the
same thing here in paragraph two okay
now a few words of a warning you need to
be able to write more than two of you
not be able to you need to write more
than 250 words because you will be
penalized now I don't know if you know
this but 23% of candidates more than two
out of ten candidates lose marks because
they don't write 250 words
okay so let's just think about this so
your introduction 40 words paragraph one
seventy seventy and forty you're going
to write two hundred and twenty words
it's not enough you're going to lose the
whole band score because of that but if
you write sixty 1990 and sixty using
these paragraph structures you'll get to
a hundred words and that is a happy
person when you receive your results
okay just another little word of warning
on test a they give you one piece of
paper to write your essay for me
personally I have big handwriting it's
not enough I can only write about a
hundred and eighty words front and back
so I have to ask for another piece of
paper to make up that 250 so just be
careful I think one of the reasons why
23 percent of candidates fail to make
the word count is probably like me they
have big handwriting so anyway enough of
that this is the structure that we're
going to use for the double question
essay it's not very different to the one
I just showed you but it is precisely
aimed at this essay prompt let me take
you through it the introduction I'll
show you that that's fine the only thing
is in sentence three this essay will
discuss question 1 and question two
ok so the examiner will see that and be
happy
paragraph 1 topic sentence 0.1 evidence
point to evidence concluding sentence
same thing with paragraph 2 topic
sentence this will be related to
question 1 this will be related to sorry
I got that wrong this will be related to
question 2 and then in conclusion a
general statement second sentence we
summarize our main ideas of paragraph
one and two because it's not asking for
any opinion here it's just asking us to
answer these two questions which we do
no opinion necessary here well kind of
we answer a question but it's different
let's look at the question prompt here
we go so imagine you sit down on test
day and this is in front of you I'll
just give you 20 seconds to read it
you
okay so you can immediately see that
this is the double question prompt why
because here's question one and here's
question two okay it's not asking for
advantages/disadvantages it's not asking
for to what extent do you agree or
disagree it has two questions there okay
let's read the prompt it says these days
many of us prefer to throw damaged
things away whereas in the past people
used to rip hair damaged items and keep
them for a long time there's a prompt
question won't explain why you think
this change has happened or why has this
change happened question 2 what are the
F excuse me what are the effects of this
change in attitude cool fine we need to
analyze the topic and we need to plan to
cover all parts of the question so
here's the topic part 1 these days many
of us prefer prefer to throw damaged
things away topic part 2 whereas in the
past people used to repair damaged items
and keep them for a long time question 1
explain why you think this change has
happened question 2 what are the effects
of this change in attitude how do we get
an IELTS 9 well this essay here is
deserving of an IELTS 9 it's 286 words
it completely answers that question
it has precise vocabulary accurate
grammar and it's very well-structured
let's begin because I want you to write
1 as well let's write the introduction
so introduction we're going to have
three sentences the first sentence we're
going to write a general statement about
this question prompt it can be a very
short sentence that's fine but it has to
be related to this issue let's read it
again these days many of us prefer to
throw damaged things away whereas in the
past people used to repair damaged items
and keep them for a long time all right
so let me just think of a few off the
top of my head people are becoming
increasingly wasteful what about people
people tend to care less about the
things they own these days something
like that just a general statement about
this prompt let me show you what I
actually wrote my mother's generation
had many skills that young people lack
today okay this is hitting in a slightly
different direction your turn you have
one minute to write a general statement
based on that prompt
you
all right what have we got okay sorry
somebody in here in this webinar is not
seeing my screen clearly I'm going to
send you a link if my screen is not
formatting well on yours you'll have to
watch this on youtube live I just put
the link into the chat there so whoever
was saying that my screens not
formatting properly click that blue link
in the chat and we'll take you to
YouTube live you can watch there but you
can ask questions still in the webinar
alright let me read you - nowadays
people tend to throw away the damaged
items rather than fixing them which was
more common in the past okay that's the
second sentence which I'm going to show
you in a second that's where you rewrite
the prompt this one comes before
rewriting the prompt it's just a general
statement about wastefulness not caring
for items something like that
so anons written and recently grown
damaged items are becoming increasingly
thrown away
let's move it around increasingly people
are throwing damaged items away nowadays
many people increasingly throw broken
things away great fine that's on topic
that's what you want to do alright let's
move to the second sentence of our
introduction now
and if we look up here sentenced to we
rewrite the question prompt in our own
words so now we rewrite this so I wrote
this in the past people could mend
clothes sew on buttons and fix a broken
tap but this is not true of current
generations who tend to replace rather
than repair so let's read it again
these days many of us prefer to throw
damaged things away whereas in the past
people used to repair damaged items and
keep them for a long time so what I've
done is I've rewritten that in my own
words to say something different I've
included a little bit of additional
information this first one is more broad
and general your turn I want you to
rewrite this now in your own words you
have one minutes
you
cool alright I'm just gonna read one off
youtube live here which is a nice one
from Nikesh Kumar nowadays people are
replacing damaged things with new ones .
in the old days they used to repair and
use them for a much longer time
excellent so you've done it in two
sentences but that's fine as long as
you've rewritten captured the main idea
of that prompt and written it in your
own words that's what the second
sentence of your introduction is all
about cool let's write the third
sentence of the introduction this is
probably the most important sentence of
your entire essay because it's going to
tell the reader what you will write
about sentence three this essay will
discuss x and y okay let's read mine
this essay will discuss why these
changes have occurred and what effects
this is having why did I write that
because I wanted to do x and y okay I
wanted to discuss x and y in other words
I want to discuss question one and I
wanted to discuss question two now I
don't know what I'm going to write about
yet because I haven't got to my
paragraphs but at least I can tell the
reader I'm going to give you an answer
for question one and I'm going to give
you an answer for question two that's
what this essay will do right I'll get
there in the paragraphs coming up but
that's all I have to do for the third
sentence of my introduction this essay
will discuss this one here and this one
here your turn I want you to write and
this essay will discuss sentence you
have one minute
you
okay I'm going to read a bad sentence
sentence that will get you into trouble
on test day because it's saying that
you're going to do something which you
won't be able to do so I don't want to
offend whoever wrote this but in recent
years
I believe that there are many reasons
why this is happening okay two issues
with this sentence first of all I
believe it's not asking you for your
opinion you should avoid sentences like
that for this particular essay type
secondly I've lost that there are many
reasons okay
you're not going to be able to talk
about many reasons keep it simple keep
it simple focus on and say this essay
will discuss the reasons why this is
happening or the reason why this is
happening in addition to the effects of
this change in attitude or slightly
different let me just read you mine
again here we go here's my full
introduction my mother's generation had
many skills that young people lack today
there's my broad general statement now I
rewrite the question in the past people
could mend clothes sew on buttons and
fix a broken tap but this is not true of
current generations who tend to replace
rather than repair they says they will
discuss why these changes have occurred
and what effects this is having cool
well done you've just written a
fantastic introduction that the IELTS
examiner's going to go hmm excellent
well done let's now write a paragraph
one okay so our paragraph one is going
to have six sentences and what we're
going to focus on in paragraph one is
the is question one okay we'll leave
question two for paragraph two so we're
focusing on explaining why you think
this change has happened and we're going
to start sentence one with a topic
sentence for question part one
it's give me a second while I get rid of
my low my slides have just collapsed and
we're back cool today fashion changes
quickly but in the past it changed
slowly clothing and furniture for
example would last for many years even
generations however these days with
pervasive advertising and communication
via social media information about new
items travels quickly and we tend to
throw out the old to buy the new your
turn I want you to write sentence 1 2 &
3 because sentences 4 5 & 6 kind of
introduce a new idea so let's just do
sentences 1 2 & 3 I want you to write a
topic sentence I want you to write point
1 and give some evidence I'm going to
give you four minutes to do this
you
all right that's four minutes let me
have a little read of a few of few
examples from the paid eetu members here
in the chat here people's attitudes over
reusing the products changed these days
or have changed just have changed or
have changed over time the first reason
behind this change is that they are more
fascinated to buy new ones for example
new and fresh products demand more
attention in society than older ones
great you've written an excellent first
half of this paragraph and you know
what's gonna come next you cannot come
up with a second idea you say in
addition to this blah blah blah blah
blah cool
let me read another one one of the main
reasons for this change is due to the
increasing rate of new items that are
introduced to the market than ever
before companies around the world are
introducing new products and commodities
to keep up with competition this in turn
is persuading customers to buy new and
upgraded versions far more quickly that
is brilliant
cool right so let's keep going now
because we're gonna make this paragraph
a little bit more complex and longer
we're still sticking to question 1
explaining why this change has happened
but we're now going to come up with our
second point another reason that
fashions change is that manufacturers
are motivated to make goods that don't
last very long now I need some evidence
for example cars today are built to last
five to ten years whereas in the past
cars would last much longer now I need
to give a concluding sentence or some
consequences by having early
obsolescence which means that things die
like cars manufacturers can sell more
goods your turn I won't now want you to
right point to provide evidence for
point two and write a concluding
sentence or a sentence that shows
consequences I'll give you another four
minutes for this one
you
another two minutes to finish off your
beautiful paragraph
you
all right that's four
minutes okay fabulous I was going to say
one of the things that you want to do
when you add this second point so you've
got point one here right and you give
some evidence then you move to point to
when you move to point two you want to
begin this sentence with a word light
moreover comma or in addition because as
an addition comma or as well as or also
just a word like this that just
indicates and tells the aisle to
examiner that you're adding a secondary
point or you could even do firstly and
secondly as well that's also possible so
I'm very happy with this first one that
I've read because it says moreover there
is another point which is very essential
and needed more attention for us that's
probably a little bit too wordy
you just say moreover we are spending
more money
ah to persuade the people that we are
coping with the fashions and we are
sticking with the generations fashion
for example people are changing annually
their cars
however the cars still are working
perfectly to convince the people that we
are very rich ok that one's just it's
confused it's confused you need to get
that one clear get the thoughts clear in
your mind before you write it think ok
what am I trying to say here what's this
idea because when we have these ideas
they're like these bubbles of they're
difficult to interpret and we can't
really articulate them what you need to
do is think it through before you write
that sentence so ok what am I trying to
say here moreover there is social
pressure on people to upgrade their
positions when in fact they do not need
to for example someone may buy a new car
when he does not need a new car because
his old car is perfectly fine think
through the idea before you write it
that's but but yes use those more overs
and and in addition for example sweet
well done well done we've just written
paragraph 1 let me read you mine because
I want you to see how these six
sentences come together to form a
wonderful paragraph today fashion
changes quickly but in the past it
changed wait before we do that what
we're doing is we're explaining why you
think this change has happened we're
explaining why people throw things away
and do not fix them anymore today
fashion changes quickly but in the past
it changed slowly clothing and furniture
for example would last for many years
even generations however these days with
pervasive advertising and communication
via social media information about new
items travels quickly and we tend to
throw out the old to buy the new second
point another reason that fashions
change is that manufacturers are
motivated to make goods that don't last
very long for example cars today are
built to last five to ten years whereas
in the past cars would Martin
last much longer by having early
obsolescence manufacturers can sell more
goods now just before we move on Oh
point one and point two a very different
point and that's important you need to
have two separate ideas linked by a word
like moreover or another reason okay
sweet let's now write paragraph two and
we're going to use the same exact
structure here we go but this time we're
writing about question 2 question 2 asks
what are the effects of this change in
attitude so what are the what are the
results of people throwing things away
and not repairing them what's happening
what what is this resulting in what are
the effects what are the changes that
you can see around you because of this
okay
so immediately I start to think okay
environmental issues I start to think
okay you know waste of money for example
different ideas are coming up in my mind
I need to get them clear I need to I
need to think them through before I
write my sentences so I'm going to start
with sentence one topic sentence
woopsie let me get rid of that this
change in attitude has Dees killed the
public and he's damaging our environment
we have lost both the skills and the
will to maintain our positions in fact
often we see it as exciting to make it
new purchases your turn I want you to
write a topic sentence point one and
evidence in four minutes your time
starts now cuz my clock just ticked over
you
woopsie alright let's have a look here
attitudes and behaviors of the people
have impacted dramatically with the
generations change in their lifestyle
previously people were very simple in
their behaviors currently the attitudes
of people are very complicated for
example young generations attitude tend
to be
okay it's a bit off-topic it's a bit
off-topic keep on the topic of the the
effects of throwing thing having that
attitude of throwing things away what
are the effects of that okay
let me read this one this change in
attitude has some effects on the
individuals themselves and on the
society as a whole good
individuals are unknowingly spending
more rapidly on goods and items as they
replace more quickly than ever before
this has resulted in low levels of
savings in their lifestyles that's the
effect that people can't save money good
that's a nice one I see another one here
about the effect on the environment
I saw another one about the effect of
unemployment I don't know you could
argue that this is a positive thing
because it creates employment as well
it's different ways to skin a cat cool
let's move on now we're going to look at
point two and we're still on this same
question to what are the effects of this
change in attitude another change is
that we now create more negative
environmental impact or impacts
you didn't see that because many of the
goods we buy and throw out are not
biodegradable ok I need some evidence
here we have become a generation of
consumers and we are damaging the
environment ok what's the conclusion or
consequence this is a huge change from
the past
excellent your turn I want you to now
add point to evidence and a concluding
sentence or consequence to your
paragraph in four minutes
you
I'm just gonna stop you there because I
read I read a sentence on YouTube which
was a bad sentence which I thought would
be a good opportunity to to tell you
about so somebody wrote that okay there
are there are negative effects
associated with throwing things away
therefore people should be better
educated okay
that's unnecessary because we're just
asking for the effects the question is
only asking for the effects it's not
asking for your opinion about how to
resolve the problem so make that that
would be considered off topic and you
would lose probably half a band score so
make sure you're just writing about the
effects the effects on the environment
the effects on the economy the effects
on your family and friends whatever it
is the effects when you start to get
into different aspects such as what
should be done that's off topic and
that's what you want to avoid okay give
you another minute to finish this one
you
all right cool I'm just gonna read one
more from YouTube because I think this
is a great opening a great point to the
other effect of throwing damaged things
away is that it leads to environmental
degradation the other main effect is
born great point two clearly written and
a nice clear idea the effect is
environmental degradation
that's how clear you have to be with
this sort of stuff okay good good good
actually let me read a few from the e2
members here there are many people who
have devoted their lire
let me read this one another effect of
this change is the impact on the
environment
beautiful that's it it's clear at the
IELTS examiner sees that and goes yep
bang got it well done another effect of
this change is the impact on the
environment nowadays individuals are
more keen to bind low quality non
biodegradable items not stuff stuffs a
bit informal that are sometimes are
overly packaged this results in more
waste thrown in the garbage instead of
reusing and recycling them incorrect us
but blah blah blah blah excellent good
cool cool cool right so this is my
paragraph too and I've used this six
sentence paragraph structure where I've
used a topic sentence point one evidence
point to evidence conclusion
consequences so really if you're going
to memorize this paragraph structure all
you need to memorize is this 0.1
evidence point to evidence and then you
just need a topic sentence in a
concluding sentence at the end okay
this change in attitude has deskilled
the public and is damaging our
environment we have lost both the skills
and the will to maintain our positions
in fact often we see it as exciting to
make new purchases another change is
that we now create more negative
environmental impacts because many of
the goods we buy and throw out are not
biodegradable we have become a
generation of consumers and we are
damaging the environment this is a huge
change from the past excellent now we
move
to the conclusion we're going to have a
two-sentence conclusion the first
sentence is going to be another general
statement preceded by the phrase in
conclusion sentence two will be the
summary of the main ideas of paragraph
one and two so in conclusion today we
tend to buy new items rather than repair
older possessions so this general
statement remember we wrote the general
statement as the first sentence of our
introduction now we do it again keep it
nice and clear and simple so we're
taking this and we're just writing a
nice general statement there fine then
we summarize the main ideas of paragraph
one and two in the process most of us
have lost the skills and the desire to
repair older items and a further
consequence and effect is that we are
damaging our environment due to excess
waste products core your turn I want you
to write a two sentence conclusion where
you say in conclusion general statement
sentence to you summarize your two ideas
and that is that I'm going to give you
four minutes it says nine just forget
that four minutes to write this three
minutes to write this perfect conclusion
you
excellent I'll just read one conclusion
from YouTube live and then one from the
YouTube members so teachers I like this
one t-shirts it's nice and simple and
clear just says in conclusion currently
we purchase new products instead of
reusing old ones right that's the
general statement this change has
detrimental effects on individuals as
well as the environment beautiful you
probably could have said why this is
happening you could have said this
change is having detrimental effects on
the individuals as well as the
environment and is caused largely by our
desire to have greater status or
whatever it is whatever your your first
paragraph was about so it's probably
missing a little bit there cool right we
have produced a fantastic essay I think
we're going to check it in a second but
let me just read one more
in conclusion items are not repaired
nowadays as they were in the past this
has increased the rate of destruction of
our environment and reduced our ability
to save money well done excellent
another one in conclusion people are
replacing items far more rapidly due to
the fact that new products introduced
faster and manufactured are of low
quality this change of attitude has
resulted in higher levels of consumer
spending and increasing environmental
pollution magic we're not finished yet
though we're not finished yet
cool so this is what my essay looks like
on the paper in front of me I won't read
it word for word because it's too much
it's 286 words now we need to do a
little proofread because we've got a
couple of minutes left right and you're
hungry you're tired you're exhausted all
you want to do is go to sleep but you
can't because you've paid 330 dollars to
sit in that IELTS test centre so you may
as well spend the last two minutes
powerfully okay this is proofreading
this is why it's important okay so we're
gonna proofread for grammar
are there any mistakes that you
regularly make do you have problems with
subject verb agreement or s on the
verbal or on the noun excuse me do you
have a problem with tense
is our verb tenses correct do you make
mistakes with articles like ah and and
that vocabulary you don't need to use
fancy vocabulary but you just need to
use it accurately or precisely you also
need to avoid too much repetition
sometimes as synonym will be useful I
see everybody uses the word nowadays I'm
shirring IELTS examiner's don't
particularly like seeing that too much
check your spelling meaning do your
sentences say what you want them to say
again the biggest one of the biggest
difficulties with IELTS writing is pen
and paper you can't go back you can't
move the cursor you can't add a word or
delete a bit you need to think of your
sentence before you write it out so you
need to get the meaning clear in your
mind first okay
that's clear boom boom boom boom then
write it don't start writing anything oh
that's not very clear but oh well I'll
move on no get it clear write it then
move on punctuation and there any
mistakes capital letters full stops
etcetera length is it 250 words I'm
gonna give you a few minutes now just to
check the word length of what you have
written because if you write below the
word length you will lose anything I
don't know if it's a half a band score
or one band score but it's ridiculous
how much you lose if you don't write 250
words I'm gonna give you two minutes to
count your words
you
it's gonna have a look at people's word
counts here okay 280 words 262 words
fantastic as long as you get over 250 I
highly recommend doing some practice
writing by hand if you do join II to
language you can join these master
classes we send you PDFs that you print
before you have the master class and you
will actually write this by hand and
it's it's I you need to do that you just
need to do that before test day
it's a teen it's an entirely different
experience writing an essay by hand
rather than typing on the computer on
typing on your phone cool all right
that's fine you can count that in your
own time so why is this an IELTS 9 let
me just finish off by saying okay task
achievement you fully address all parts
of the task it's fully developed and
it's supported it's on topic it's fully
addressed the question you have
developer developed arguments and it's
well supported in addition it's over 250
words coherence and cohesion ban nine
paragraphs are well organized cohesion
is invisible in other words it just
flows very smoothly from sentence to
sentence cohesion use words like these
but this essay we'll discuss today but
in the past for example however another
reason another change in fact this in
conclusion a further consequence is this
is good cohesion that will get you a
nine lexical resource means vocabulary
sophisticated control a high range young
people today or young people lack today
fixed to tap who tend to X rather than Y
generations tend to throw out change has
occurred are motivated to changing
attitude D skilled the will to maintain
environmental impact great vocabulary
very precise grammar a variety of
grammar a mix of simple and complex
flexible accurate strong punctuation
here are some tenses had skills could
mend will discuss would last travels
built has d skilled create have become
so I've got present perfect I've got
active and passive
I've got modal verbs have got a variety
of different tenses for example cars
today are built to last five to ten
years whereas in the past cars would
last much longer
IELTS examiner's like these types of
sentences let's recap the double
question essay structure should be like
this you're going to have an
introduction where you write a general
statement you then rewrite the prompt in
your own words and say this essay will
discuss question 1 in question 2
paragraph 1 topic sentence point 1
evidence point to evidence concluding
sentence paragraph 2 topic sentence
point 1 evidence point to evidence
concluding sentence or consequences
conclusion in conclusion general
statement based on the prompt sentence
to summary of main ideas paragraph 1 and
2 task achievement on topic coherence
and cohesion it's logical precise
vocabulary accurate grammar that's what
you need to do guys if you're on YouTube
you can join in these live classes at2
language calm you'll be sent the PDF
you'll also get full access to our
online course as well as lots of other
stuff including tutorials and writing
feedback so do check that out it's not
too late these master classes will run
until Friday I'm gonna leave it there
because I'm doing IELTS reading for the
paid members in 30 minutes time so for
those paid members in the in the webinar
now you'll need to print out your PDF
because my presentation will just show
the questions you need the passages
unless you have an iPad where you can
read the passages and then look at the
questions but it won't work unless you
print out that PDF or at least have a
separate computer where you can read
those passages ok cool I'm starting to
get exhausted but this is fun I'll see
you guys soon
you